1.What does processing mean?
Ans: The procedure that transforms raw data into useful information is called processing.
2. Which two components take part in processing?
Ans: Processor & memory are two components take part in processing.
3. Where are in the computer system the processor and memory units located?
Ans: The processor and memory are located on the computer’s main system board or motherboard.
4. Which component is called the brain or heart of computer?
Ans: The CPU is called the brain or hreart of a computer.
5. List three primary functions of the CPU?
Ans: The three primary functions of the CPU are: i) CPU accepts data and instraction from the
input device ii) CPU processes the data according to ther given instraction iii) CPU stores the
results of the operation in its memory or displays it in a suitable output media .
6. What other functions does the CPU performs besides processing?
Ans: i) Controls the flow of data throughout the system ii) Control the operations of all other units
of the system iii) Places data in memory and retrieves them when needed.
7. How many components the CPU has?
Ans: The CPU has two components : i) Arithmetic and logic unit ii) Control unit.
8. What is bus?
Ans: A bus is a communication system that transfers data between components inside a computer.
9. With which the components of the CPU are usually connected?
Ans: The CPU are usually connected by an electronic highway known as bus .
10. What is regester ?
Ans: To temporarity store data and instractions,the CPU has high speed special purpose memory
devices called register .
11. List the primary function of the ALU?
Ans: The primary function of ALU is listed below: i) All arithmetic calculations and logical
decisions are performed in the ALU ii) When needed for processing,ALU receives data and
instractions from primary memory iii) ALU temporarily sends back the partial results to the
primary memory,untill needed later iv) After the processing is over the ALU then send the final
results to the memory unit to be stored either permanently or temporarily.
12. List the primary function of the Control unit?
Ans: The primary function of control unit is listed below: i) This unit controls and coordinates the
activities of all othe units of a computer system ii) It takes instractions from the memory unit one
at a time and interprets them.It then sends appropriate signals to all other units to cause the specific
instraction to be executed. iii) According to the stored instractions the control unit ensures that the
right operation is done on the right data at the right time .

13. List the primary function of the memory unit?
Ans: List the primary function of the memory unit is listed below: i) Memory stored data and
instractions received from the input device for processing. ii) It supplies information of the ALU
when required iii) It receives partial or final results from the ALU iv) It supplies final results to
the output device.
14. Which unit acts as a central nervous system although it does not performs any actual processing
on the data?
Ans: Control unit acts as a central nervous system although it does not performs any actual
processing on the data.
15.What do you mean by upward and downward compatibility?
Ans: Upward compatibility :- It is the capability of a hardware device to interact successfully
with all succeeding versions of software . This hardware device is called upward compatibility.
Downward compatibility:- :- It is the capability of a new hardware device to interact successfully
with all the same software product that its predecessor could. This hardware
device is called downward compatibility.
16. What does RISC and CISC processor mean?
Ans: RISC _ Reduced Instraction Set Computer. CPUs designed according to this theory are
called RISC.
CISC – Complex Instraction Set Computer. CISC is a kind of microprocessor chip that typically
contains 200 to 300 instractions in it.
17. Why Co- processor is needed in a computer system?
Ans: Co- processor is needed in a computer system because it enhance the processing speed of
the main processor.
18. What is bus? What are the three types of buses?
Ans: A bus is a communication system that transfers data between components inside a computer.
There are three types of buses.They are : i) Address Bus ii) Data Bus iii) Control Bus .
19. Which bus is unidirectional ? Which bus is bidirectional ?
Ans:- Address bus is unidirectional.
Data bus is bi-directional.
20. List some principal bus standard used in microcomputer along with their manufacturer and
data bus length?
Ans: i) Data Bus ii) Control Bus iii) ISA Bus iv) MCA Bus v) EISA Bus vi) PCI Bus vii) USB
Bus viii) PCMCIA Bus .
21. Which bus was not backward compatible ?
Ans: MCA bus was not backward compatible.
22. Which bus is open domain?
Ans: PCI bus is open domain.
23. Which bus is hot swappable ?
Ans: USB bus is hot swappable.
24. How many different devices the USB can support?
Ans: 127 devices the USB can support.

25.Which bus is called PC card?
Ans: PCMCIA bus is called PC card.
26.Define port: List some standard and specialized ports used in Micro computer ?
Ans: i) Serial Port,Parallel Port,Network Port,Monitor Port,Audio Port,Modem Port.
27. List some factors that can increase the processing speed of a computer?
Ams: i) Size of the registerof the CPU ii) Size of memory iii) Cache memory iv) Clock Speed v)
Data Bus vi) Address Bus vii)Coprocessor